Ah, I see exactly what you’re asking now—you want a thorough, logical comparison between your approach and the classic “> and <” approach for the number guessing game, and whether your logic is valid or not. Let’s break this down carefully.

1️⃣ Your Approach (Explicit Cases)

Your code basically does this:

secret = 6

while True:
    secret_number = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    if secret_number == 5 or secret_number == 7:
        print("Too high")
    elif secret_number in [1,2,3,4,8,9]:
        print("Too low")
    elif secret_number == 6:
        print("You guessed, Good job.")
        break

How it works:

You explicitly map certain guesses to “Too high” or “Too low.”

Numbers not in the explicit checks (like 10, 11, 1000, 999999999) don’t trigger a message, so the loop just continues silently.

This implicitly limits the effective guessing range to numbers you define (1–9 in your example).

You are trying to guide the user by giving messages only for numbers close to the secret number, so the user can logically narrow down the correct guess.

Pros:

Guided guessing: Users get hints only for numbers near the secret number. This can make the game more like a puzzle.

Controlled feedback: Users quickly learn the “range” without seeing infinite messages for numbers far away.

Encourages thinking: Your approach encourages logic over trial-and-error.

Cons:

Not scalable: You have to manually list all numbers you want to give feedback for. If secret = 50, it’s tedious.

Silent numbers: For numbers outside your explicit list (10, 11, etc.), the user gets no feedback, which may confuse them.

Less conventional: Most users expect “Too high” for all numbers above the secret and “Too low” for all numbers below.

2️⃣ Classic Approach (< and > operators)
secret = 6

while True:
    guess = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    if guess > secret:
        print("Too high")
    elif guess < secret:
        print("Too low")
    else:
        print("You guessed, Good job.")
        break

How it works:

Any number greater than the secret prints “Too high.”

Any number less than the secret prints “Too low.”

Only the correct number prints success.

Pros:

Scalable: Works for any secret number, even huge numbers (10, 50, 999, 1000000…).

Simple and logical: Uses the natural ordering of numbers.

No need to manually map numbers: Feedback is automatic for all numbers.

Cons:

Infinite ranges: Yes, technically numbers like 9999999 will show “Too high,” but practically it’s okay; the user can see they overshot and try smaller numbers.

Less “guided”: You don’t tell the user which numbers are “close,” only the direction. The game can be longer if the user guesses randomly.

3️⃣ Comparison of Logic
Feature	Your approach	Classic < / > approach
Feedback for all numbers	❌ No	✅ Yes
Scalable for any secret	❌ No	✅ Yes
Guidance / close-range hints	✅ Yes	❌ No
Simple / conventional logic	❌ More manual	✅ Very simple
Handles huge numbers	❌ Poorly	✅ Very well
4️⃣ Where you are “right” and “wrong”
Where you are right:

Your logic can help the user guess faster for small ranges. For example, they can see 5/7 → “too high” and 1–4 → “too low,” which narrows the possible numbers quickly.

Your design is intentional, creating a controlled puzzle rather than letting the user guess blindly.

Where you are wrong / limited:

Your code fails for numbers outside your explicit range. If the user enters 1000 or 10⁶, nothing happens, which is not intuitive.

Your logic doesn’t scale. With < and > operators, a secret of 6 works for any input automatically. You’d need a huge if-elif block to cover every possible number otherwise.

Claiming that < and > operators are “incorrect” because numbers can be huge is not a valid argument. Even if a user guesses 10⁶, the program correctly says “Too high.” That is logical and expected. You’re confusing “infinite possibilities” with “wrong feedback.”

5️⃣ Mental Model Difference

Your mental model: You see numbers as a small set (1–10), and you want to guide the user. You use explicit mappings.

Classic mental model: You see numbers as a continuous range, and the user can guess any integer. The program provides general feedback with < or >.

Your approach is like a puzzle game, while the classic approach is like a realistic number guessing game.

✅ 6️⃣ Conclusion

Your logic is not “wrong”—it works for small, controlled sets.

The classic </> approach is more robust, scalable, and conventional, especially if the secret number or user guesses are large.

Both approaches teach different things: yours is about reasoning with hints; the classic is about mathematical comparison.

My advice:

For learning Python and logic, try the </> approach.

For fun or a controlled guessing puzzle, your approach is valid.